_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: ""
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

About Me
---
Hi, I’m **Alex Loftus**. I am currently a data scientist at [Creyon Bio](creyonbio.com); Prior to this, I was a machine learning engineer at [Blue Halo](https://bluehalo.com/), and a master's student in biomedical engineering, with a data science focus, at Johns Hopkins University.

I’ve been fortunate to work with a number of brilliant people over the last few years. Here are some fun projects which resulted:
 - I worked with [Professor Joshua Vogelstein](https://www.neurodata.io) in the Johns Hopkins Biomedical Engineering department to build a [pipeline to create graphs from MRI data](https://github.com/neurodata/m2g), which led to a paper in-review at Nature Methods. 
 - I co-authored a [textbook on spectral graph theory](https://docs.neurodata.io/graph-stats-book/), which we are publishing with with Cambridge University Press. 
 - We developed an open-source project, [Graspologic](https://www.github.com/microsoft/graspologic), which was acquired by Microsoft and used to measure collaboration changes in their workforce during COVID. 
 - This year, I began [giving talks](https://www.youtube.com/@SanDiegoMachineLearning/videos) for the San Diego Machine Learning meetup group, where I joined a team competing in the [Vesuvius Ink Detection Kaggle Competition](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/vesuvius-challenge-ink-detection). We won 1st place against 1,249 teams for a competition prize pool of $100,000.

I have multimodal research interests which span across natural language processing and computer vision, with the common thread being an excitement about inference-time knowledge editing and knowledge understanding techniques. I am particularly interested in using my background in spectral graph theory to bring new ideas into this area of research.

## Talks & Publications
- [A Saliency-based Clustering Framework for Identifying Aberrant Predictions](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2311.06454.pdf): NeurIPS Workshop Paper, 2023 - won best poster
- [1st Place Solution - Vesuvius Ink Competition](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IWySc8s00P0): Presentation, 2023, for 60 people. Presenting on our winning solution to a \$100,000 Kaggle competition.
- [Hands-on Network Machine Learning with Scikit-Learn and Graspologic](https://www.overleaf.com/read/cdmbzwkrxtbv): Textbook, 2023, Cambridge University Press. Second author, contributed roughly half the pages and figures.
- [A low-resource reliable pipeline to democratize multi-modal connectome estimation and analysis](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.11.01.466686v1): Paper, 2022, Nature Methods, under review. Second author, wrote most of the infrastructure for the codebase.
- [ICML Conference Highlights](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V_hcmfdJzF8): Talk about new machine learning techniques in drug discovery and medicine presented at ICML
- [Working with LLMs](https://lu.ma/aisd1): Talk, 2023, for 100 people at the AIML San Diego meetup
- [Role of CAMKII in Associative Conditioning and GLR-1 Expression in C. Elegans](https://imgur.com/a/f2TxUt9): Poster, presented at Society for Neuroscience, 2017, Washington, DC. Later author, conducted most of the later experiments.
- [Effects of an unc-43 (CaMKII) Gene Deletion on Short-Term Memory for Associative Conditioning in C. elegans](): Talk, presented at Psychfest, 2017, Bellingham, WA.

### Misc
I grew up in Seattle, WA and studied behavioral neuroscience during my undergraduate years, with a philosophy minor and an early interest in theory of mind. I got interested in math and programming and started a computational neuroscience club, where I taught weekly seminars. I also spent a lot of time partner dancing and playing guitar at open mic nights!

<!-- 
Talks
=====

TODO:

about section
Papers
Talks
Teaching
include resume
misc section -->

Commit message:

update about, add some draft

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: ""
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

About Me
---
Hi, I’m **Alex Loftus**. I will be starting a PhD with [David Bau's group](https://baulab.info/) at Northeastern in the fall in interpretability. I am currently a data scientist at [Creyon Bio](creyonbio.com); Prior to this, I was a machine learning engineer at [Blue Halo](https://bluehalo.com/), and a master's student in biomedical engineering, with a data science focus, at Johns Hopkins University.

I’ve been fortunate to work with a number of brilliant people over the last few years. Here are some fun projects which resulted:
 - I worked with [Professor Joshua Vogelstein](https://www.neurodata.io) in the Johns Hopkins Biomedical Engineering department to build a [pipeline to create graphs from MRI data](https://github.com/neurodata/m2g), which led to a paper in-review at Nature Methods. 
 - I co-authored a [textbook on spectral graph theory](https://docs.neurodata.io/graph-stats-book/), which we are publishing with with Cambridge University Press. 
 - We developed an open-source project, [Graspologic](https://www.github.com/microsoft/graspologic), which was acquired by Microsoft and used to measure collaboration changes in their workforce during COVID. 
 - This year, I began [giving talks](https://www.youtube.com/@SanDiegoMachineLearning/videos) for the San Diego Machine Learning meetup group, where I joined a team competing in the [Vesuvius Ink Detection Kaggle Competition](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/vesuvius-challenge-ink-detection). We won 1st place against 1,249 teams for a competition prize pool of $100,000.

I have multimodal research interests which span across natural language processing and computer vision, with the common thread being an excitement about inference-time knowledge editing and knowledge understanding techniques. I am particularly interested in using my background in spectral graph theory to bring new ideas into this area of research.

## Talks & Publications
- [A Saliency-based Clustering Framework for Identifying Aberrant Predictions](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2311.06454.pdf): NeurIPS Workshop Paper, 2023 - won best poster
- [1st Place Solution - Vesuvius Ink Competition](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IWySc8s00P0): Presentation, 2023, for 60 people. Presenting on our winning solution to a \$100,000 Kaggle competition.
- [Hands-on Network Machine Learning with Scikit-Learn and Graspologic](https://www.overleaf.com/read/cdmbzwkrxtbv): Textbook, 2023, Cambridge University Press. Second author, contributed roughly half the pages and figures.
- [A low-resource reliable pipeline to democratize multi-modal connectome estimation and analysis](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2021.11.01.466686v1): Paper, 2022, Nature Methods, under review. Second author, wrote most of the infrastructure for the codebase.
- [ICML Conference Highlights](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V_hcmfdJzF8): Talk about new machine learning techniques in drug discovery and medicine presented at ICML
- [Working with LLMs](https://lu.ma/aisd1): Talk, 2023, for 100 people at the AIML San Diego meetup
- [Role of CAMKII in Associative Conditioning and GLR-1 Expression in C. Elegans](https://imgur.com/a/f2TxUt9): Poster, presented at Society for Neuroscience, 2017, Washington, DC. Later author, conducted most of the later experiments.
- [Effects of an unc-43 (CaMKII) Gene Deletion on Short-Term Memory for Associative Conditioning in C. elegans](): Talk, presented at Psychfest, 2017, Bellingham, WA.

### Misc
I grew up in Seattle, WA and studied behavioral neuroscience during my undergraduate years, with a philosophy minor and an early interest in theory of mind. I got interested in math and programming and started a computational neuroscience club, where I taught weekly seminars. I also spent a lot of time partner dancing and playing guitar at open mic nights!

My girlfriend, Aina, is also in machine learning and we sometimes do research together. You can learn about her on her website: [ainatersol.github.io](https://ainatersol.github.io/).
